[KOGITO-8250]-Working with Open API callbacks (#268)
kiegroup/kogito-docs: serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/eventing/working-with-openapi-callbacks.adoc

= Openapi Callback in {context}

> 

Reviewer: don't we need to add this to the index and the card?

:compat-mode!:
// Metadata:
:description: Working with openapi callbacks
:keywords: kogito, workflow, serverless, openapi, callback, event

> This document describes the link:{open_api_spec_url}#callback-object[Openapi Callback] and related examples. Also it covers the difference between Openapi Callback and the Callback state. Both openapi callback and the Callback state performs an action and waits for an event, to be produced as a result of the action, to resume the workflow. Therefore, both openapi callback and the Callback state are suitable to perform  _fire&wait-for-result_ operations. The openapi callback is an asynchronous, out-of-band requests that your service will send to some other service in response to certain events whereas the action peformed by a Callback state is an asynchronous external service invocation. The goal of both the ways is to send an event to workflow to resume the flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document describes the link:{open_api_spec_url}#callback-object[Openapi Callback] and related examples. Also, it covers the difference between OpenAPI Callback and the Serverless Workflow Callback state. Both the OpenAPI callback and the Callback state perform an action and wait for an event to be produced as a result of the action to resume the workflow. Therefore, both OpenAPI callback and the Callback state are suitable to perform  _fire & wait-for-result_ operations. 

The OpenAPI callback is an asynchronous, out-of-band request that your service will send to some other service in response to specific events. In contrast, the action performed by a Callback state is an asynchronous external service invocation. Both ways aim to send an event to the workflow to resume the flow.
```

> As mentioned in the Openapi Callback document, while the workflow performs an asynchronous service invocation callback URL must be provided in the request body. The callback which sends the event to the workflow is defined using the URL provided by the user during service invocation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the OpenAPI Callback document, while the workflow performs an asynchronous service invocation callback URL must be provided in the request body. The callback which sends the event to the workflow is defined using the URL provided by the user during service invocation.
```

Can you please add a link to the `OpenAPI Callback document`?

> As mentioned in the OpenAPI Callback document, while the workflow performs an asynchronous service invocation callback URL must be provided in the request body

Can you please rephrase this sentence? I don't think I quite understood it.

> From a workflow perspective, asynchronous service indicates that the control is returned to the caller immediately without waiting for the action to be completed. Once the action is completed, a link:{cloud_events_url}[CloudEvent] is published to resume the workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From a workflow perspective, asynchronous service indicates that the control is returned to the caller immediately without waiting for the action to be completed. Once the action is completed, a link:{cloud_events_url}[CloudEvent] needs to be published to resume the workflow.
```

For the workflow to identify the published CloudEvent it is waiting for, the external service developer includes the workflow instance ID in the CloudEvent header or uses the xref:eventing/event-correlation-with-workflows.adoc[Event correlation]. The following figure displays the process:

image::eventing/callbacks-explained.png[]

The workflow correlation described in this document focuses on the former mechanism that is based on the fact that each workflow instance contains a unique identifier, which is generated automatically.

[[ref-example-callback]]

> == Example of Openapi Callback

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Example of the OpenAPI Callback
```

> To understand the Openapi Callback, see the link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus[`serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus`] example application in GitHub repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To understand the OpenAPI Callback, see the link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus[`serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus`] example application in GitHub repository.
```

The `serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus` application is initiated with the below request:
[code,json]
----
{
  "message": "Hello"
}
----

> Once the workflow is started, it makes an external service call with the callback URL and process instance Id in the request body. As configured in the openapi file, the callback URL is invoked to send a CloudEvent to the workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the workflow is started, it makes an external service call with the callback URL and the workflow instance Id in the request body. Then, as configured in the OpenAPI file, the callback URL is invoked to send a CloudEvent to the workflow.
```

> as configured in the OpenAPI file

Can you please add a link to the lines where this is stated in the example?

> Once the `wait` type CloudEvent is received, the workflow moves to the next state and ends successfully.

Reviewer 2: I think it's worth bringing the workflow visual representation to the guide or the workflow DSL.

> To use the Openapi callback in a workflow, the Openapi yaml file is configured with the callback as specified in the link:{open_api_spec_url}#callback-object-examples[Openapi callback object example].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the OpenAPI callback in a workflow, the OpenAPI YAML file is configured with the callback as specified in the link:{open_api_spec_url}#callback-object-examples[Openapi callback object example].
```

                .withType("wait")
                .withTime(OffsetDateTime.now())
                .withExtension(CloudEventExtensionConstants.PROCESS_REFERENCE_ID, eventInput.getProcessInstanceId())
                .withData(objectMapper.writeValueAsBytes(Collections.singletonMap("message", "New Event")));

        webClient.postAbs(eventInput.getUri()).sendJson(builder.build()).toCompletionStage();
    }
----

After that, the workflow application consumes the CloudEvent, it contains an attribute named `kogitoprocrefid`, which holds the workflow instance ID of the workflow.

The `kogitoprocrefid` attribute is crucial because when the correlation is not used, then this attribute is the only way for the Callback state to identify that the related CloudEvent needs to be used to resume the workflow. For more information about correlation, see xref:eventing/event-correlation-with-workflows.adoc[Event correlation in {context}].

Note that each workflow is identified by a unique instance ID, which is automatically included in any published CloudEvent, as `kogitoprocinstanceid` CloudEvent extension.

HTTP configuration in `serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus`::
+
--

> The `serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus` example application consumes the Cloudevents using Knative Eventing. For more information about incoming and outgoing CloudEvents oer HTTP, see xref:eventing/consume-produce-events-with-knative-eventing.adoc[Consuming and Producing CloudEvents over HTTP].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus` example application consumes the Cloudevents using Knative Eventing. For more information about incoming and outgoing CloudEvents over HTTP, see xref:eventing/consume-produce-events-with-knative-eventing.adoc[Consuming and Producing CloudEvents over HTTP].
```

= OpenAPI Callback in {context}

:compat-mode!:
// Metadata:
:description: Working with openapi callbacks
:keywords: kogito, workflow, serverless, openapi, callback, event

> This document describes the link:{open_api_spec_url}#callback-object[Openapi Callback] and related examples. Also, it covers the difference between OpenAPI Callback and the Serverless Workflow Callback state. Both the OpenAPI callback and the Callback state perform an action and wait for an event to be produced as a result of the action to resume the workflow. Therefore, both OpenAPI callback and the Callback state are suitable to perform  _fire & wait-for-result_ operations. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This document describes the link:{open_api_spec_url}#callback-object[OpenAPI Callback] and related examples. Also, it covers the difference between OpenAPI Callback and the Serverless Workflow Callback state. Both the OpenAPI callback and the Callback state perform an action and wait for an event to be produced as a result of the action to resume the workflow. Therefore, both OpenAPI callback and the Callback state are suitable to perform  _fire & wait-for-result_ operations. 
```

The OpenAPI callback is an asynchronous, out-of-band request that your service will send to some other service in response to specific events. In contrast, the action performed by a Callback state is an asynchronous external service invocation. Both ways aim to send an event to the workflow to resume the flow.

> As mentioned in the link:{open_api_spec_url}#callback-object[OpenAPI Callback document], when the workflow makes an asynchronous service call, the callback URL must be provided in the request body. The external service invokes the callback URL and sends a link:{cloud_events_url}[CloudEvent] to the workflow.

Reviewer 4: Suggestion to avoid passive voice

```suggestion
As mentioned in the link:{open_api_spec_url}#callback-object[OpenAPI Callback document], when the workflow makes an asynchronous service call, you must provide the callback URL in the request body. The external service invokes the callback URL and sends a link:{cloud_events_url}[CloudEvent] to the workflow.
```

From a workflow perspective, asynchronous service indicates that the control is returned to the caller immediately without waiting for the action to be completed. Once the action is completed, a link:{cloud_events_url}[CloudEvent] needs to be published to resume the workflow.

For the workflow to identify the published CloudEvent it is waiting for, the external service developer includes the workflow instance ID in the CloudEvent header or uses the xref:eventing/event-correlation-with-workflows.adoc[Event correlation]. The following figure displays the process:

image::eventing/callbacks-explained.png[]

The workflow correlation described in this document focuses on the former mechanism that is based on the fact that each workflow instance contains a unique identifier, which is generated automatically.

[[ref-example-callback]]

> == Example of the OpenAPI Callback

Reviewer 3: I think this section should be a bit modified. Before starting with the call, first explain what the SWF definition does and how it works. Then send the hello message.

Author: The details of the SWF definition were not mentioned to avoid the repetition, as we mentioned the details in the SWF example repo and provided the link to the example for reference.

Reviewer 3: My point more to reorganize what is mentioned in this section.
The http call should be done after the explanation of the swf structure

To understand the OpenAPI Callback, see the link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus[`serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus`] example application in GitHub repository.

> The `serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus` application is initiated with the below request:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus` application is initiated with the following request:
```

[code,json]

> ----

Reviewer 3: Which URI should it be sent to ?

Author: The URI and other details to run the example were mentioned in the example repo- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/serverless-workflow-examples/serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus. The same has been mentioned in the document.

{
  "message": "Hello"
}
----

> Once the workflow is started, it makes an external service call with the callback URL and the workflow instance Id in the request body. Then, as configured in the link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus/callback-workflow/src/main/resources/specs/callback.yaml[OpenAPI] file, the callback URL is invoked to send a CloudEvent to the workflow.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once the workflow is started, it makes an external service call with the callback URL and the workflow instance ID in the request body. Then, as configured in the link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus/callback-workflow/src/main/resources/specs/callback.yaml[OpenAPI] file, the callback URL is invoked to send a CloudEvent to the workflow.
```

Once the `wait` type CloudEvent is received, the workflow moves to the next state and ends successfully. The following figure shows the link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus[`serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus`] image:

image::eventing/openapi-callback.png[]

> To use the OpenAPI callback in a workflow, the OpenAPI YAML file is configured with the callback as specified in the link:{open_api_spec_url}#callback-object-examples[Openapi callback object example].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use the OpenAPI callback in a workflow, the OpenAPI YAML file is configured with the callback as specified in the link:{open_api_spec_url}#callback-object-examples[OpenAPI callback object example].
```

To use the Callback state in a workflow, first CloudEvent type `wait` is declared that the workflow uses. Following is an example of CloudEvents declaration in a workflow definition:

.Example of CloudEvent declaration in a workflow definition
[code,json]
----
 "events": [
    {
      "name": "waitEvent",
      "source": "",
      "type": "wait"
    }
----

> After that, a Callback state is declared, it waits for a CloudEvent with `wait` type. Following is an example of declaring a Callback state that handles the `wait` type CloudEvent:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After that, a Callback state is declared, and it waits for a CloudEvent with the `wait` type. Following is an example of declaring a Callback state that handles the `wait` type CloudEvent:
```

.Example of a Callback State declaration handling the `wait` CloudEvent
[code,json]
----
 {
      "name": "waitForEvent",
      "type": "callback",
      "action":
        {
        "functionRef": {
          "refName": "callBack",
          "arguments": {

>             "uri": "http://localhost:8080/wait",

Reviewer 3: I think we should explain as a TIP or NOTE how to set this URL dynamically via an env var ?

[[ref-example-callback]]
== Example of the OpenAPI Callback

To understand the OpenAPI Callback, see the link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus[`serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus`] example application in GitHub repository.

This example contains a simple link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus/callback-workflow[workflow-service] that illustrates callback state using OpenAPI callbacks functionality. A callback is a state that invokes an action and wait for an event (event that will be eventually fired by the external service notified by the action). This example consists of a callback state that waits for an event to arrive at the wait channel. Its action calls an external service named link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus/callback-event-service[callback-event-service] that publishes the wait event over HTTP. After consuming the wait event, the workflow prints the message received in the wait event and ends the workflow.

> The `serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus` application is initiated with the following request to `http://localhost:8080/callback`:

Reviewer 5: I would push this even further down after the SWF and OpenAPI spec is described.

Once the `wait` type CloudEvent is received by the callback-workflow-service, the workflow moves to the next state and ends successfully. The following figure shows the link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus[`serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus`] image:

image::eventing/openapi-callback.png[]

To use the OpenAPI callback in a workflow, the OpenAPI YAML file is configured with the callback as specified in the link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus/callback-workflow/src/main/resources/specs/callback.yaml[OpenAPI] file.

To use the Callback state in a workflow, first CloudEvent type `wait` is declared that the workflow uses. Following is an example of CloudEvents declaration in a workflow definition:

.Example of CloudEvent declaration in a workflow definition
[code,json]
----
 "events": [
    {
      "name": "waitEvent",
      "source": "",
      "type": "wait"
    }
----

> After that, a Callback state is declared, and it waits for a CloudEvent with the `wait` type. Following is an example of declaring a Callback state that handles the `wait` type CloudEvent:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
After that, a Callback state is declared, which waits for a CloudEvent with the `wait` type. Following is an example of declaring a Callback state that handles the `wait` type CloudEvent:
```

.Example of a Callback State declaration handling the `wait` CloudEvent
[code,json]
----
 {
      "name": "waitForEvent",
      "type": "callback",
      "action":
        {
        "functionRef": {
          "refName": "callBack",
          "arguments": {
            "uri": "http://localhost:8080/wait",
            "processInstanceId": "$WORKFLOW.instanceId"
          }
        }
      },
      "eventRef": "waitEvent",
      "transition": "finish"
    }
----

> *TIP:* Please refer xref:service-orchestration/configuring-openapi-services-endpoints.adoc[configure openapi service endpoints] document to set the URL dynamically using an environment variable.

Reviewer 5: For TIP please use:
https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-docs/blame/eaef87f88363074d330798e2bd6fe25ba897dcdb/serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/eventing/consume-produce-events-with-knative-eventing.adoc#L44-L47

        webClient.postAbs(eventInput.getUri()).sendJson(builder.build()).toCompletionStage();
    }
----

The callback-workflow-service consumes the CloudEvent, it contains an attribute named `kogitoprocrefid`, which holds the instance ID of the workflow.

The `kogitoprocrefid` attribute is crucial because when the correlation is not used, then this attribute is the only way for the Callback state to identify that the related CloudEvent needs to be used to resume the workflow. For more information about correlation, see xref:eventing/event-correlation-with-workflows.adoc[Event correlation in {context}].

Note that each workflow is identified by a unique instance ID, which is automatically included in any published CloudEvent, as `kogitoprocinstanceid` CloudEvent extension.

=== HTTP transport configuration

--
The `serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus` example application consumes the Cloudevents using Knative Eventing. For more information about incoming and outgoing CloudEvents over HTTP, see xref:eventing/consume-produce-events-with-knative-eventing.adoc[Consuming and Producing CloudEvents over HTTP].

> The HTTP path where the workflow application will listen for the CloudEvents in the `serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus` example application, is configured in the link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-callback-events-over-http-quarkus/callback-workflow/src/main/resources/application.properties[`application.properties`] file.

Reviewer 5: A link to the `application.properties` file would be helpful. Or a short snippet.
